--------------------------------------------------------------
                Quaternion toolbox for Matlab
                http://qtfm.sourceforge.net/
       Mailing list: qtfm-announce@lists.sourceforge.net
--------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright (©) 2005-2013 Stephen J. Sangwine & Nicolas Le Bihan
Email: sjs@essex.ac.uk, nicolas.le-bihan@gipsa-lab.inpg.fr
--------------------------------------------------------------

                     Release Notes

Version 2.0  2 April 2013

This major new release adds an additional class to the toolbox, for
computing with octonions, making maximum use of existing quaternion
functionality to implement the new octonion functions. The octonion
code operates using the Cayley-Dickson construction, that is the
internal representation of an octonion is an ordered pair of
quaternions. For the moment, the octonion class should be regarded
as experimental, and the functionality is limited compared to the
quaternion class. We have not listed all the new octonion functions
here, because most are overloadings of existing Matlab or quaternion
functions. However, we have implemented the LU decomposition, and left
and right matrix inverses that will work for small arrays (linv and rinv).
We have also added two new functions called associator and commutator which
take arbitrary argument types, but make most sense with quaternions and
octonions. Functions for creating random and zero octonions follow the
naming conventions used for the corresponding quaternion functions (e.g.
rando corresponds to randq). Although some other functions will work for
octonion matrices, their results may not be correct. Test code for the
octonion functions is somewhat limited at present, but basic functionality
is tested.

CAUTION: Since the octonion algebra is not associative, multiplication of
octonion matrices is not associative. The documentation will be updated
gradually to add the octonion functionality, but it is likely that coverage
will be sketchy for some time, since many existing quaternion documentation
files need to be updated. We do not plan to change the name of the toolbox,
since it remains first and foremost a quaternion toolbox. The octonions are
a bonus.

A new function, part, for octonions and quaternions provides indexed access
to the components. For the quaternions this provides similar functionality
to the existing s/scalar/x/y/z functions, but for the octonions it provides
the only means to access the individual components of the vector part - we
did not want to create seven named functions corresponding to the existing
quaternion functions x/y/z.

A new function scatter4 provides a way to visualise distribution
of quaternions in four dimensions using six orthographic projections.
scatter3 and image now support an output parameter (a graphics handle)
just as the corresponding Matlab functions.

A new function, frenet, computes the Frenet-Serret frames of a quaternion
sequence or curve.

The private function isoquaternion has been altered to fix a problem
with the sqrt function in which sqrt(quaternion(-1)) returned zero
rather than the correct result (0+1i) + 0 * I + 0 * J + 0 * K
(the complex root of -1). Since isoquaternion is used in many other
functions, this may also have an impact elsewhere, but this remains
to be studied.

The checking of Matlab version numbers in the test code has been updated.
Note that with Matlab version 8 the Start menu has been removed. The QTFM
documentation is accessible from the Documentation window, under Supplemental
Software. The other functionality of the Start button seems to have
vanished, but the test code can be run by typing qtfm_test in the command
window.

(For earlier release notes see version 1.9, or look at earlier versions of
this file using the Sourceforge CVS repository browser.)

$Id: Release_notes.txt,v 1.30 2013/04/02 14:38:27 sangwine Exp $
